Overview of the Event Loop
Node.js is built on the libuv library, which provides the event loop mechanism and facilitates asynchronous I/O operations. 
The event loop continuously checks for pending events, executes callback functions, and processes tasks, enabling Node.js 
to handle numerous operations without blocking the execution thread.

Phases of the Event Loop
The event loop consists of several phases, each with its own specific tasks. These phases are:

Timers

Purpose: Executes callbacks scheduled by setTimeout() and setInterval().
Behavior: If the time threshold for a timer has been reached, its callback is executed.
Details: setTimeout() and setInterval() callbacks are queued here if their scheduled time has elapsed.
I/O Callbacks

Purpose: Executes almost all I/O callbacks, except for those that are close, timers, or set by setImmediate().
Details: Handles callbacks deferred to the next iteration of the loop by certain system operations like TCP errors.
Idle, Prepare

Purpose: Only used internally. Prepare handles callbacks related to preparing for the event loop, and Idle handles callbacks when there’s nothing else to do.
Details: Not generally used directly by most applications.
Poll

Purpose: Retrieves new I/O events; executes I/O related callbacks (almost all) except for those that have been deferred to the check phase.
Details: Determines what to do based on events; either blocking to wait for new events or executing queued callbacks.
Check

Purpose: Executes callbacks scheduled by setImmediate().
Details: Used to execute code after the poll phase has completed.
Close Callbacks

Purpose: Executes callbacks for events like socket.on('close', ...).
Details: Handles cleanup or closing of resources.
Detailed Flow
Here's a more detailed explanation of the event loop's operation:

Initialize: The event loop starts and initializes the environment.
Timers Phase: Callbacks from setTimeout() and setInterval() are executed if their specified time has elapsed.
I/O Callbacks Phase: Executes deferred callbacks, like errors from TCP operations.
Idle, Prepare Phase: Internal use only.
Poll Phase:
If there are timers whose threshold has been reached, move to the next phase.
If there are no timers, check for I/O events, and execute I/O callbacks.
Check Phase: Executes callbacks from setImmediate().
Close Callbacks Phase: Executes close event callbacks, e.g., from streams and sockets.
Next Tick: process.nextTick() callbacks are executed immediately after the current operation completes, before the event loop continues.

Features of Event Loop:

> Event loop is an endless loop, which waits for tasks, executes them and then sleeps until it receives more tasks.
> The event loop executes tasks from the event queue only when the call stack is empty i.e. there is no ongoing task.
> The event loop allows us to use callbacks and promises.
> The event loop executes the tasks starting from the oldest first.

Example:


console.log("This is the first statement");
   
setTimeout(function(){
    console.log("This is the second statement");
}, 1000);
   
console.log("This is the third statement"); 

Output:

This is the first statement
This is the third statement
This is the second statement